https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FU_OV3fuukk

There is a quote that states, 
life is 10 percent what happens to you and 90 percent how you react to it
which means that your reaction is drastically more
important than the circumstance.
and that's critical to know,
it's critical to undestand that nothing
no one in life has more power over your own situation than you
and there's an old story that hits on this point exactly
there's a father and a daughter and basically
the daughter is complaining.
she's complaining about life how difficult things are
she doesn't know how she's going to make it
in whatever it is she's doing. 
I mean, the bottom line is she's tired of the day to day, right
her father gets this idea.
he says, come with me into the kitchen, and he gets three pots of water,
puts them on the stove and turns the burners on
as soon as they start boiling, he dropd a potato in the first one,
an egg in the second one and some coffee beans
in the third one and after some time goes by and they boil a 
little bit, he pulls them out
he puts the potato in a bowl
he puts the egg in a bowl and he takes a ladle and he put
some of the coffee in a cup. 
And he says, what do you see?
she says, well I see a potato, I see eggs and I see coffee
he says, yeah but look closer, there's more there.
and she goes and she touches the potato
and it's now soft and he hands her the bowl with the boiled egg,
right she takes the shell off and breaks it open
she sees that it's hard inside
then finally he asks her to take a sip of the coffee
and she smells it, she takes a sip
a smile comes to her face.
she says, so what does all this mean? what are you trying to say?
he says, well the potato, when I dropped in the water it was it was rigid.
it was tough.
it was uncompromising but in the boiling water it became soft, weak.
then you have the egg that was basically the opposite,
this delicate layer protecting a liquid center and the boiling water made it hard.
And then there was the coffee that wasn't just changed by the situation.
It created something new, it took the same adversity and used it as a lever to bring something beautiful into existence.
He then looks at his daughter and says, look when things become challenging, when things become dificult which one are you?
what's your approach?
see maybe the question is not about how challenging the situation is, right.
maybe we've been asking the wrong question, maybe it's how do you transform yourself and by default the world aroud you?
how do you take your strengths, your values, your loves, your joys, your happiness and let that lead you into something bigger.
when life gets hard and it does what do you become?
I always remind myself you know we are not defined by life at peak state, as much as I wish that were the case.
we're not shaped by the easy days or the times that we floated by, because those times are great, they're enjoyable but they're not what make or break us.
It's the times that challenge us and ask us to be what we have not yet become.
That's the good stuff.
and this is another one of those, you know simple but not easy type things because on paper it makes sense.
It's understood but it's an outlook that manifests over time.
It's slowly stacked piece by piece and brick by brick, realizing that every situation provides you with tools to make something out of an apparent nothing.
and then it waits because fate is in your hands and I can certainly thing of times in my life, that's one of the reasons I love these stories i can reflect,  where each one of those pots of boiling water was relevant.
I can think of times I was too headstrong like the metaphorical potato.
I thought success would be easy
I thought projects would be simple to execute.
I spent months doing things that just werent't good because I didn't ask what does the world need.
I asked myself, what do I want to give the world and there has to be a marriage there, right, and it was a quick reminder that the world owes me nothing.
I was humbled or softened as the story goes.
I've been the egg. I've been timid, I've been uncertain, thin skinned.
worrying about what people would say or the content I was creating. Worried about perception.
how would things look if I failed?
and very quickly I learned that when life is a game of comparison or one upmanship, when you do things for reasons and people other than yourself you can't win.
you overcompensate, you do things for the wrong reasons and you lose yourself.
you become hardened. and then there's the good stuff, right.
getting to the coffee, not bowing down to the circumstances, but shaping them.
not letting life dictate how the story goes or the fate of your character and what's interesting is I'm pretty sure that being that metaphorical egg and the potato they laid the foundation to become the coffee, the life lessons, the falling down, the picking my ego up off the floor, learning to trust myself, not be led by the opinions and expectations of others.
you essentially learn that you can take the world around you and change it, that it is malleable and it is flexible.
you have that power, you have that ability.
it's up to you to believe it and that's critical because no one comes along and co-signs that undestanding for you. 
it's an internal process.
you start to learn that things aren't there to provide instruction they're there to propel
you but can you see the unknown as the opportunity, the obstacle as the way and the loss as the armor that you pick up during the journey
and so, you know all of these words essentially come to one point, and that point is you have so much more control over your life than you think you do.
as I've said before you are stronger than you think you are.
you are more resilient than you can even imagine.
and when life tests you, and again it will, remember that the challenges are not happening to you but for you.
the world isn't taking away what you have, it's giving you what you need so long as you're willing to adapt with it, to grow, expand out because you not only have the ability to change yourself, but the world as well.
